a new study this morning reveals the
damaging effects of marijuana use this
research comes from the Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences it
finds that long-term marijuana used
deteriorates the part of the brain
responsible for decision making the
effects are more severe in people who
start using at a young age
two years and the idea was in that
two-year time frame to build an
organization and also to create streams
of income online whereby that can fund
my lifestyle so since moving to Thailand
I realized that another thing I was also
doing was becoming sober because I was
well they've been studies done in mice
showing that a chronic marijuana use
makes the frontal lobe of the brain
smaller and the data in humans just
wasn't that definitive now with over a
hundred individuals studied with and
without marijuana use we can clearly say
that people who use marijuana have a
smaller frontal lobe the decision-making
part of the brain but what's interesting
is they also have more connections out
of that area and the more structural
changes happen the younger they start
but after six or seven years those
structural changes start to go away but
I was man enough to address it as such I
reached out to some friends a week
before Thailand I decided a camp time
and started to detox and I'm talking so
I was smoking every day twice a day and
generally in the evening and at the time
I knew that it was a detriment I knew
that it was definitely causing me to be
more of a procrastinator we may not seem
like something that's that big a deal
but it's a substance and when you become
addicted to a substance it's something
that kind of controls you and hinders
your production in this five your
contribution to this world your
contribution to your eyes south cannabis
seems to have been causally related to
several instances of cerebral ischemia
and infarction now these are scary words
if you look it up in a dictionary the
real meaning of ischemia which changes a
little bit in context in medical
literature and infarction may surprise
you
but this is stating very clearly
marijuana causes brain damage again if
you want to read every word of this you
can pause the screen or you can follow
up through the footnotes find these
articles and read the studies in full
but I quote learning and memory are
often correlated with cellular changes
within the hippocampus and drugs or
environmental factors which affect
learning and memory with us often induce
observable morphological changes in the
structure in the current study
investigate whether or not these changes
could be related to structural changes
within the hippocampus now they do this
through torturing a certain type of rat
to death and now if we skip down to the
highlighted portion at the bottom it
says this work shows the potential for
cannabinoids to influence hippocampal
morphology the pattern of changes may be
similar to that seen after ice quemic or
toxic damage guys if you don't know what
this means it's talking about brain
damage now I'm not saying that I'm going
to be sober for the rest of my life I'm
not saying I'm not saying that I'm going
to be sober for the rest of my life
because that's a commitment that I just
can't see myself completely on heroin
consumption elicits diverse
physiological and psychological effects
in humans including memory loss skipping
ahead to the final sentence here these
data suggests that some of the memory
deficits caused by cannabinoids may be
caused by THC neurotoxicity on some
level I think that most people use
cannabis are accustomed to many excuses
for what this article is attesting to
measuring that in effect quote long term
cannabis users perform significantly
less well than shorter term users and
controls on tests of memory and
attention they had worse memory worse
ability to to pay attention persistent
behavioral effects resembling those of
hippocampal brain lesions have been
reported following chronic
administration of marijuana or its major
psychoactive constituents THC to rats
we used morphometric techniques to
investigate the effects of
chronic THC on the anatomical integrity
of the hippocampus the rats were dosed
at THC and then electron micrographs
revealed a striking ultra structural
appearance and statistically significant
decrease in the mean volume of neurons
and their nuclei samples from the
hippocampal ca3 regions of rats treated
with the highest doses of THC a 44%
reduction and the number of synapses per
unit volume was demonstrated in these
same rats a lot of people watching this
video now have probably used marijuana
for five years or more at some point in
their life whether or not they're doing
so today guess what in this period of
five years at the beginning cortical
thickness did not differ between
patients and controls and between
cannabis using and non using patients
over the follow-up period we found
excessive thinning of the right
supplementary motor cortex inferior
frontal corporate cortex superior
temporal gyrus angular gyrus occipital
and parietal lobe in patients relative
to controls after controlling for
cannabis use cannabis users had
bilaterally reduced hippocampal and
amygdala volumes right you can read
through all the details here about the
precise location and nature of the brain
damage it's the type of research this is
conclusions these results provide new
evidence of exposure related structural
abnormalities in the hippocampus and
amygdala in long-term heavy cannabis
users and corroborate similar findings
in the animal literature vegans
generally are people who have questioned
and rejected the premise that yogurt was
essential to their health who have
questioned many things that were told by
parents teachers doctors and marketing
agencies vegans generally are people who
have been willing to question cultural
assumptions of what healthy means why
would it be any harder for us to
question the myths surrounding cannabis
it causes brain damage
there is proof
[Music]